            GoReSym blog define and apply
            Struct issue 14

            Title: Contributing to GoreSym: Go Function Signature Reconstruction


            Go binaries are notoriously difficult to reverse engineer. Between the unique
            runtime structures and the way the pclntab handles metadata, extracting
            meaningful data from a compiled Go executable requires more than a standard
            strings utility.
            GoReSym extracts metadata from compiled Go binaries. One of its core features is
            **type reconstruction** .It reads Go's internal type descriptors baked into the
            binary and outputs them as C-style definitions that IDA Pro can understand and
            apply.
            Before this PR, GoReSym already reconstructed many Go types:
                  Structs → `struct { field type; ... }`
                  Slices → `struct { ptr; len; cap }`
                  Arrays → `typedef elem name[len]`
                  Pointers → `typedef elem* name`
                  Interfaces → `struct` with method members
                  Scalars (int, bool, float) → C typedefs
                  *But function types (`Kind == Func`) were completely ignored.* The old
                  code was a ~12-line stub that emitted `void*` for every function type,
                  regardless of what parameters or return types it actually had.
            This meant IDA had no way to understand function signatures from GoReSym's
            output. Issue #14 asked to fix this ,extract the actual parameter and return type



GoReSym blog define and apply Struct issue 14                                                   1
            information from Go's function type metadata, and emit proper C-style typedefs
            that IDA can ingest.


            Before Diving deep into the solution here are somethings you should read which
            will further aid your comprehension of the solution I am coming up (still working
            on it ).

            Signature.
            A function signature is the complete description of a function's interface — its
            name, what goes in, and what comes out:
             func Add(a int, b int) int
            //        ↑ inputs        ↑ output

            That's the signature. Not the body, not the implementation — just the contract:
            "give me two ints, I give you one int back


            Type reconstruction.
            Same idea as signature reconstruction but broader, recovering the shape of any
            data type from binary metadata, not just functions.


            objfile.go

            what old logic was doing was just returning only void




            new logic explained step by step
            Step 1 — Find where the counts live in memory
            Every Go function type stored in the binary has a small header. After the standard
            type info (size, name, etc.), there are two numbers sitting next to each other: how
            many parameters go in, and how many values come out. The code calculates the
            exact memory addresses of those two numbers.


GoReSym blog define and apply Struct issue 14                                                     2
            Step 2 — Read those two numbers
            It reads 2 bytes from each address to get the actual counts. It has to be careful
            about byte order — some processors store numbers with the big byte first, some
            with the small byte first. The code handles both cases.
            Step 3 — Check if the function is variadic
            Go stores a secret flag inside the "how many outputs" number. It uses the very
            first bit (the topmost bit) as a yes/no flag for whether the function accepts a
            variable number of arguments (like ...int ). The code pulls that flag out and then
            removes it so the remaining bits give the real output count.
            Step 4 — Find where the parameter type list starts
            Right after those two count numbers, the binary stores a flat list of pointers. Each
            pointer points to a full type descriptor for one parameter. The code figures out the
            exact address where this list begins.
            Step 5 — Look up what each parameter's type actually is
            For each input parameter, the code follows the pointer to that parameter's type
            descriptor and calls itself recursively to parse it. This means if a parameter is a
            pointer to a struct, it will fully parse the struct too. It collects the human-readable
            C type name for each one. It does the exact same thing for return values, just
            starting further along in the list.
            Step 6 — Build the final C string
            With all the type names collected, it assembles a C function pointer definition. If
            there's one return value, it becomes the return type. If there are zero, it uses void .
            If there are multiple (which C can't express natively), it writes void and puts the
            actual types in a comment. The parameter list gets joined with commas, and if the
            function was variadic, ... gets added at the end. The result looks like a real C
            typedef that IDA can import.


            in Goresym_rename.py

            A new function called apply_function_type was added to the script. It accepts an
            address, a function name, and the types dictionary. It currently does nothing — its
            entire body is just pass . It exists as a named placeholder so the structure is there
            for whoever implements it next. The comment explains the three things that would



GoReSym blog define and apply Struct issue 14                                                         3
            need to happen: extract the signature from IDA's analysis, match it against the
            reconstructed types, and apply the matching type to the function.




            more coming Soon.




GoReSym blog define and apply Struct issue 14                                                 4
